** Francisco at his post. Enter to him Bernardo
Bernardo Who's there?
Francisco Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
Bernardo Long live the king!
Francisco Bernardo?
Bernardo He.
Francisco You come most carefully upon your hour.
Bernardo 'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
Francisco For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
Francisco And I am sick at heart.
Bernardo Have you had quiet guard?
Francisco Not a mouse stirring.
Bernardo Well, good night.
Bernardo If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
Bernardo The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
Francisco I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
** Enter Horatio and Marcellus
Horatio Friends to this ground.
Marcellus And liegemen to the Dane.
Francisco Give you good night.
Marcellus O, farewell, honest soldier:
Marcellus Who hath relieved you?
Francisco Bernardo has my place.
Marcellus Give you good night.
** Exit
Marcellus Holla! Bernardo!
Bernardo Say,
Bernardo What, is Horatio there?
Horatio A piece of him.
Bernardo Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
Marcellus What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Bernardo I have seen nothing.
Marcellus Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Marcellus And will not let belief take hold of him
Marcellus Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
Marcellus Therefore I have entreated him along
Marcellus With us to watch the minutes of this night;
Marcellus That if again this apparition come,
Marcellus He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Horatio Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Bernardo Sit down awhile;
Bernardo And let us once again assail your ears,
Bernardo That are so fortified against our story
Bernardo What we have two nights seen.
Horatio Well, sit we down,
Horatio And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
Bernardo Last night of all,
Bernardo When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Bernardo Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Bernardo Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Bernardo The bell then beating one,--
